Hi friends
In this video we're going to discuss about passing
2D array into a function.
So consider a programme which passes 2D array elements into
a function.
First we defined row as 2 and col as 2
now in the main function we are declaring an integer
two dimensional array arr[row][col] with elements 10 20 30
and 40
Now we declare integer variables i and j now in
a nested for loop we are calling the function
fun(array[j])
So in each iteration the arry element will be passed to
the function fun
so in the first iteration of outer for loop
and first iteration of inner for loop we are calling
the function by passing arr[0][0] which is 10
and it will be printed in the function
In the second iteration of inner for loop we are
calling the function by passing arr[0][1] which is 20
and it will be printed in the function now
In the third iteration inner loop condition fails
So in the second iteration of outer for loop and
first iteration of inner for loop we are calling the
function by passing arr[1][0] which is 30 and it
will be printed in the function and in the second
iteration of inner for loop we are calling the function
by passing arr[1][1] which is 40 and it will
be printed in the function
Now both loop condition fails and control comes out and
programme return
Zero
Now let us see what happens if we pass entire 2D
array to a function so consider the programme with
main function and the user defined function fun
First we create the array with elements 10 20 30 and 40
and we are calling the function fun now
here we are passing the name of the array
So the address of first Element is passed to the
function
Remember that the entire elements will not be passed to
the array
So here 1024 is past to the function here
in the function parameter the first dimension of array is
optional
But the second dimension must be specified now in a
for loop we are
printing each element in the first iteration 10 is printed in
the next iteration 20 is printed in the next iteration
30 is printed and finally 40 will be printed now control
returns to Main and return zero
Now what if we had an assignment statement like this
here? Array[i][j] =100 inside the for loop
Then in each iteration the element is set to hundred
after control comes out of for
Loop every element is set to 100.
So it is important that since we are passing the
reference to the function if we modify the array elements
it will change the actual value of the array
So that's all and thank you for watching this video